# Senior-Project

Giovany Addun, Conner McCloney, and Ryley Rodriguez
Mentor: Clemente Izurieta – Computer Science 
Comparison of Machine Learning Techniques for Land Use Classification

In natural resource management, land cover and land use are terms used to describe what types of natural andman-made features compose an area of land. This information is typically presented as land cover/land use (LCLU)maps, which are typically created using machine learning techniques on remotely sensed data. These maps areimportant to professionals like city planners when investigating growth, ecologists when tracking invasive species,or agronomists when deciding what crops to plant or soil treatments to apply. Since 1972, the Landsat programhas launched 8 observational satellites. These satellites continuously orbit the earth, collecting ground reflectancevalues for different wavelengths of light. Because the Landsat program has been continuously making observationsfor so long, it is a great source of data for creating LCLU maps. Although tools for converting Landsat data to LCLU maps currently exist, a vast majority of these tools are quite expensive and many of the free tools have strong limitations. This makes it difficult for citizen scientists to conduct studies using LCLU data or remotely sensed data in general. Giventhis difficulty, we have chosen to implement several LCLU classification techniques using free and open-source software. We have chosen 5 classification techniques to implement and compare their relative strengths in terms of precision, recall and accuracy while making LCLU classifications on 3 different geographic locations.
